Donna?
Yeah?
Why don't you keep going?
Oh, no.
I came for two napkins.
Huh?
We can get back here.
Oh, thanks.
Were you both collectors when you did that?
When you got married?
This is something that developed, and the machine is on now, by the way.
Were we collectors when we met?
You have to understand.
Well, you won't understand.
We've known each other forever, by the way.
Since we've been 15.
We married at 22.
I didn't know that.
Yeah, yeah.
When does that question totally move?
I mean, we were not the whole... We fully developed as married people.
We've been married almost 38 years.
Do you finish each other's sentences?
Do you have that only look-a-like?
You know, my wife and I know it's scary sometimes how the thoughts are.
They're thinking about the same exact things at the same moment.
I mean, you've got to have that, right?
Yeah, I mean, you can talk about a code that nobody else will understand.
You don't realize it.
Right, that's right.
That's right.
I can look at her face and know pretty much what she's most of the time.
I don't.
as with me, but I collect, as a child, I collected stamps, still have the stamp collection, and I tried to strive at that time, not having any money, I mean, just to have a very strong collection of certain countries.
It just wasn't a desire, but I wasn't, I don't collect stamps today, but I think I collected, I collected little things, you know, rocks and
I mean, you started early on, which is... I think Donna, you did too.
But not, you know, just collecting as children collect.
You said you started basically in your 40s, right?
Yeah, but I read... I encouraged you to buy the first book that you read.
encouraged him to do that a great deal.
Yeah, I mean, I was always a heavy reader since I've been eight years old to five years old.
So reading has always been a passion, but Donna's right.
The first book was strictly Donna's.
Encouraged me.
I was very shy about buying it.
It was a $10 book.
And there was a letter in the book from Alfred Canoff to a newspaper editor, a book editor,
talking about him, you know, Fitzgerald and all of that period.
And the letter was written on the day I was born.
And that was why he was finished.
He had to have that book.
Right, you know.
I think he might have that book.
But, you know, should he, should may, you know.
Our place was so filled with all the contemporary readings, things we were reading day by day.
wonderful bagels, may I say.
Yes.
Have another one.
I should have asked you if you wanted to post it.
This book is priceless.
The Sea of Grass, Connery Richter.
Pre-publication copy.
$7 on it, by the way.
$5.07.
Here it is.
This is one of 250 copies, signed by the author.
It goes with his publisher's best wishes for Christmas in the New Year, 1937.
Harry Mack, the other held in 1937.
And you say this letter that accompanies it.
Well, that's quite a letter from Alfred, isn't it?
Two pages.
December 12, 1936, which is your birth date, right?
Right.
Oh, Warren.
That is your birth date.
Yes.
It seems to be a two-page, a full two-page typed letter signed by Alfred Knopf to Harry MacDill, A-M-C, capital I-L-L-E-A-I-N-E, Esquire Lawyer of the Cleveland News Company.
So this is a local book.
I mean, a local person that had it.
Cleveland News is an old Cleveland newspaper.
It was our other daily paper.
We don't have it anymore.
So that book to me is priceless.
And you know that prices are relevant.
Isn't that great?
So that was the first one.
So did you know you were a collector with that book?
No.
The thing that made you, the collector, was the next purchase, which was the yellow book.
which I saw.
Right.
I brought one copy home, one of the editions home.
It was expensive for me.
I said to Don, I'm sure I didn't show it down.
For a week, we said, that's a lot of money.
How much, do you remember, what you're talking about?
A hundred dollars, a hundred dollars.
And this is about how many years ago, would you say?
Eighteen.
I'm sorry, what?
18 years ago.
19.
So your law practice was proceeding well.
This was something that you could certainly... You were a struggling young lawyer at that particular point.
No, but it was just the idea of making this fateful move, right?
Right.
And we bought it down in the first year to buy it.
The whole set?
Mm-hmm.
And how many volumes was that?
13.
And is that like the whole run?
That's the whole run.
It came out in monthly parts.
Parts again.
So you basically started as a collector with parts, didn't you?
Well, kind of.
Although that's a magazine.
That's not really parts.
But the next one after that was Little Dorit.
But conceptually it's the same thing.
And then Little Dorit came next, which just Peter Heisercloth started, which also started Hugo.
And he had this
And then he had a letter from Dickens to someone talking about how his daughter died, named Dora, and named the book after her.
And that became, you know, I loved Dickens, and that went from that to other things.
Yeah.
Just some O'Neill.
You know, just sort of a... And then we were up in Cape Cod, and we were at a friend's parents' home, and he had a...
a number of books in Rockwell, Kent.
And I started reading into Kent and realized he was the kind of person, not an attractive person, but traveled a lot and lived in different countries and was an explorer of sorts, and that's kind of what we do.
And became fascinated with his history and his talents and started collecting Kent.
And so everything has a connection.
Well, everything has a connection.
Would you say your shared passion for traveling,
outlined briefly last night, which sounds extraordinary.
Does this feed off every time?
Does this energize the collecting at all?
No, it's separate.
It's just separate.
I mean, I'm not a traveler.
I don't collect travel books per se.
I read a lot.
We read a lot to travel and get ideas.
I mean, we went to Afghanistan in 1980 when the Russians, while the Russians were coming in.
And we went there simply because, as a child, I read about Marco Polo and the Silk Route and decided it would be a great trip, not knowing how dangerous it was at that point.
And you read out of books, you develop fantasies or wish fulfillment.
We've been very lucky over the decades to execute and come together with our fantasies.
Do you find often, usually, that the actual experience fulfills the fantasy?
I'm just a curious question.
Good question.
Yeah.
Yes.
We've been following the Silk Route for 20 years, for instance, off and on.
And one day, you know, we went to Mazar-e-Sharif, which is the northern part of Afghanistan.
I said to Donna, I would love to cross the river.
Can we get up to Russia, which is where the steppes are, because the fantasy of the steppes and Tolstoy.
And we tried to get up there.
I want to wear my jeans and take a quick shower.
And we tried to get up there, but we were, the Russians were starting to come in then.
We had to get out of there.
And so I said to Donna that I wanted to
go back there.
What's on the side of the river?
Samarkand.
S-A-M-A-R-K-A-M-D.
Samarkand, okay.
And Bukhara, or Bukhara.
These are fabled cities from... So I said to Donna, we've got to get over there.
And so a few years later, there was a trip to Central Russian Asia, and we took a trip to Samarkand, and Bukhara
And although the cities aren't quite obviously the same as in fairy tales and in the history, I can say we were there and we lived on both sides of the river.
It was a wonderful experience.
A few years ago we went to Pakistan, traveled up to the Hunza River, and we were going up to China when we got trapped in upper Pakistan for ten days.
I'll give you a... I mean, I'll show you.
Okay.
I just read a few notes here.
This is an article I wrote.
So you've done a little bit of writing, haven't you?
Oh, yeah.
This is called A False Paradise by Robert H. Jackson.
And who did you write this for?
Myself.
So it exists in this forum?
I haven't published it.
Is this a copy?
No, I can make a copy.
Why not?
I'd love to have a copy.
You know, you can send it so you don't have to do it right now, sort of like that.
But, you know, I wrote this, you know, it's a 5,000-word article.
And I said to myself, and I've shown it to a few people.
I like that.
You know, I like everything that I can.
Well, you know, I write.
But I just, you know.
And I have started another article in Yemen.
See, this is where we had to be.
They evacuated by helicopter and were pushing people off the helicopter.
It's like Vietnam.
It was a terrible experience.
And then the road started in Arco on Yemen, being across an empty corridor with bodyguards.
So we've had our, you know, we've been chased by police.
So you kind of pushed the envelope a little bit.
Oh, yeah.
Did you get a kick out of that?
A little adrenaline?
A little bit.
I mean, we've been... How about your life?
Not as much, no.
We've been in tribal wars in New Guinea, where we got shot out with bolts and arrows.
You know, we had to fend off.
You know, we had some... We've had... How long are these trips?
What duration?
Three weeks.
And you do... So I gather it's your practice to do something like this, a major... Every year.
Every year.
About the same time each year?
Yeah, September is always a good time.
Usually weather, except in...
Pakistan, the weather was superb.
Last year we went to Bolivia and crossed the Alto Plano, the high desert, and we got lost on the Salt Lake, which is a flat in the south because the driver we had had never been there before, so I had to figure out a way to get out of there.
And then we ran into, it's a great story, we ran into, we were in a little hut,
on the edge of the Salt Sea.
And we stayed there this night, and the people, the Indians who put us up, are being threatened by the neighbors because they're making money.
And we ran across a French archaeologist who is stealing some of the treasures from Bolivia.
He got caught, and now he's back again.
We just happened to run into him that night.
It was a little hot.
You know, there's no electricity, no water, and we were able to, you know, have an experience with him.
I have eight pages, ten pages of notes.
I interviewed the drivers.
I did everything.
Probably knew what you were doing.
I just had him go sit down and put it to him.
It's a great story.
It's a great little.
You're right.
Or even do it orally, you know, even talking into people.
I know.
It's a great story.
I mean, it's not profound or anything, but it talks about the Indians and the French, how they... The context is that he's stealing, too, right?
Yeah.
Well, that's how they've raped.
The French have raped more of South America than almost any other group.
I know that.
Well, and you know how the cultural... Well, the Spaniards have done a pretty good job.
Well, I met him recently.
and how the Indians are fighting with each other because they keep, they themselves are their own own cities because they don't allow free enterprise.
They like to keep the people down.
You know, things like that.
Yeah.
Well, it's interesting.
So many of us read to travel, you know, I mean, to experience, and you certainly do that, but you do like to take it to the next speaker.
Oh, I know.
There aren't many people.
We went to Tierra del Fuego some years ago to follow Rockwell Kent's footsteps, and I interviewed some of his people who thought knew him at that time.
He's obviously been there a while.
And I just enjoyed the weather.
Is that a pattern, you say, to follow Rockwell Kent with the silk trade?
It's a pattern of getting ideas from writers.
In other words, it's just not... Let's pursue that a little bit.
It's not just... How do you decide where you're going to go each year?
Well, now it's more complicated than... You've been to most places that are interesting.
So, one thing I haven't been to is Greenland, and I want to do a dark side ride across Greenland.
Why?
Because Rockwell Kent did it, and he gave me the idea, and it's Leif the Red, Leif Erickson, you know, just to... I read into history.
I like to go down the Ebangi River where the Pygmies are to read about.
Why would you want to do that?
What gave you the idea for that?
Reading a book by some Frenchman who spent time in the jungle with the Pygmies.
Can you think of his name?
No.
He's Belgian.
Well, let's think about it at some point.
I have a vision of the book.
I can tell you the book.
It doesn't even matter, the title of it doesn't matter at this point, but it certainly fired you.
Well, give me some other examples of this.
Now, this is an interesting little angle here I like.
Well, the evidence we found was Silk Road, and we read about Kashgar, which is the furthermost post in a city in China.
And this was prior, of course, to going there.
Oh, yeah.
You read about Ariel Stein and some of the other great explorers, and Kashgar was the last outpost.
I like this.
This is a good angle.
But this has nothing to do with collecting.
Well, this book concerns itself with, as I said, matters beyond collecting.
I'm really trying to explore how books make people play.
See what I'm saying?
We've been very lucky.
You know, I read something.
Now, this is not today and then go tomorrow.
I mean, it just goes back.
No, of course, but it's been.
It's been 15 years.
And it sits with me.
Well, it becomes a fantasy, as you said earlier.
And I actually... You fantasize it.
Yeah, actually.
I love the jungles.
And so... Did you read Kipling?
Yeah, and saw the movie with Sabu.
And so what was the first thing I did when we were able to?
We went to the jungles in Amazon.
By ourselves.
We all do...
We did everything by ourselves.
And we may hire God, but no groups.
You may hire a guide, you said.
Yeah, in that level of God.
And we went up to jungles in Amazon to Leticia, where there's smugglers, and we went into the jungles with a guide.
You know, and I just, you know, I could just envelop myself.
It was fantasy.
Tarzan movies, type of thing.
And where did you stack this, during this, of your life?
1970.
So it's close to 30 years doing this.
Now you have how many children?
Two.
And they're adults and they're away from home.
Did you ever take them on any of these trips?
We've taken them to... We climbed Mount Kinabalu in Borneo some years ago with my son and his friend.
I couldn't climb all the way because of bad meat.
Douglas I took to Pakistan, where we got trapped, and then I eventually took him to Tibet.
And the kids I've taken to Israel and Egypt, we were there when they were turning over the Sinai to Egypt, and they saw the anger and the violence at the time.
We've taken our daughter to Europe several times, and we've taken them around the country.
place in the Bahamas we'd spend a lot of time in.
Winter, of course.
In about Montana.
I think I'm camping a lot.
That's a good little... I'm really willful in what I read or think about.
The other part of it is to be accurate is to also talk to other travelers
Go back on it.
You're delighted by the Stanford acquisition of Ginsburg?
Right.
Because, you know, my sale to Arizona State was modest.
The collection I have now is the major, I think it's most important, in private hands of the material, and it just gives credibility to it.
Of course, the Whitney retrospective, I have a major lunch manuscript, and
118 letters from Brinsburg to Burroughs at that time, Paul Bowles, Maturna.
Things of that quality.
I'll show you tonight if you want to try.
I'm leaving about what time?
10.30.
We've got time there.
I've got to go.
Oh, you've got to go?
I have to go to work.
Oh, can I shoot a couple pictures before you go?
There is a nice light.